I want to thank Skillshare for sponsoring
this video.
Let's be honest.
We're all lazy to some extent.
And there's nothing wrong with that.
It's natural.
However, most of the time, it's those exact
moments of laziness that make us overindulge
on our bad habits.
You see, when we feel motivated, it's quite
easy to do the things we want to do, even
if we find them difficult otherwise.
But when we're feeling stressed, tired, lazy
or when we've had a long day, we don't quite
posses that enthusiasm to do something that
requires effort.
This is why on those lazy days, we usually
do whatever is most convenient or easy, whatever
that might be.
And generally that's our default behavior.
In technology, default means the way something
works when you start using it.
For example, when you buy a new phone, the
settings are already set for you.
You get a default ringtone, a preset wallpaper,
etc..
And unless you change those settings, default
is what you're stuck with.
Now it's similar with our habits.
We all have certain behaviors that we adapted
to, that are standard to us.
They have become our default and we tend to
perform them almost on auto-pilot.
Those behaviors could be positive like: reading
or learning new skills.
Or they could be something negative like:
smoking cigarettes and scrolling through social
media all day.
Now, instead of accepting all of our behaviors
as defaults, we should re-examine the ones
that are not serving us. Just like we can change
our ringtone, we can also adjust our behavior.
And we can use our lazy nature to our advantage
here.
All we need to do is utilize The 20 Second
Rule.
In his book "The Happiness Advantage", Shawn
Achor describes his own struggle with behavior change.
Shawn had a very clear goal.
He wanted to practice his guitar more often,
while reducing the amount of time he spent
watching TV.
However he encountered a problem that many
of us do, whenever we want to change our behavior.
Simply telling himself that he'll do it, wasn't
enough for him to actually do it.
His guitar stayed in the closet, and watching
TV remained his default go-to option.
Shawn recognized that he needed to disrupt
his default behavior somehow, otherwise nothing
would change.
So he started looking for a solution.
He realized that every time he wanted to play
his guitar, he had to first go in the closet,
get the guitar case out, and only once he got the
guitar out of its case, could he actually play.
This all took roughly 20 seconds, but even
this minimal effort that was required, seemed
to be enough to deter Shawn from playing.
After he became aware of this, he decided
to move the guitar out of the closet, and
put it on a guitar stand, in the living room
instead.
Now, whenever he wanted to play, he didn't
have to search around the closet any longer.
The guitar was already out of its case, and
he was able to pick it up and start practicing,
without having to exert too much effort.
Shawn also applied a similar tweak to his
TV habit.
This time what he did was, he took the batteries
out of the remote control and moved them to
a drawer in another room.
The next few nights, when he got home from
work and by default jumped on the couch to
watch TV, he noticed that something was wrong.
He kept pressing the ON button, on the remote,
forgetting that he removed the batteries.
Now, Shawn didn't didn't feel like getting
up and retrieving the batteries from the other
room, as this would take extra effort.
So instead he picked up and played his guitar,
which was conveniently within an arm's reach.
This slight intervention allowed him to disrupt
his default behavior.
And as days passed, his urge to watch TV decreased,
and playing the guitar started to feel more
and more natural.
Shawn decided to call this behavioral approach:
The 20 Second Rule.
Essentially what he did was, he made playing
the guitar 20 seconds easier, while making
watching TV 20 seconds harder.
And this strategy can be applied to pretty
much any behavior you want to change.
Of course, 20 seconds is just a suggestion
and not an absolute number.
In some cases, more than 20 seconds could
be required, while in other cases it could
be less than 20.
The point is to lessen the barriers between
activities you want to do more often, by making
it more convenient for yourself to do them.
While on the flip side, increase the obstacles
between activities you want to stop participating
in, by making them more difficult to start.
I know that this might sound simple and intuitive,
but many of us don't utilize this.
Which is a shame, since our surroundings are
a huge contributing factor when it comes to
our behavior.
You see, usually the most difficult part of
any behavior is getting started.
And the more activation energy an activity
requires, the less likely you are to start,
especially if you're feeling tired or lazy.
When I say activation energy, I mean the amount
of effort you need to exert, before you can
begin something.
So for example, watching TV usually takes
very little activation energy.
You just have to get the remote, jump on the
couch, and you're set.
Not much effort is required.
Now when it comes to working out, a little
more activation energy is needed to begin.
However, if you really think about it, lifting
weights isn't that difficult.
Sure, it's not as easy as laying on the couch,
but the activity itself is not really that grueling.
What really turns you off, is the fact that
you have so many steps to go through, before
you can begin working out.
First you need to get your gym bag ready,
put on your shoes, then you need to drive
to the gym, change your clothes, and so on
and so forth.
There's so many inconveniences standing in
the way.
But if you could skip some of those steps,
or at least make them more tolerable, working
out would become much easier, as there would
be less activation energy required.
And it's the same with pretty much any other
activity.
When it comes down to it, most of the activities
aren't that difficult to do, they just require
a little more effort for you to get started.
But once you do start and get settled in,
it's always very easy to continue, even if
you don't necessarily find the activity as
fun.
So if you're able to lower the activation
energy required to begin a certain behavior,
your chances of doing what you want to do,
increase exponentially.
And this is especially important because,
even if you enjoy doing something, but there's
a lot of friction in the way before you can
begin, you're more likely to skip it and go
do something easier instead.
For example, I love going for long bike rides.
It's one activity that always helps me unwind,
especially if I'm feeling stressed or anxious.
However, there's one problem I encounter every
single time I want to go cycling.
And that is the fact that I have to get my
bike out of the basement first. The whole process
takes me exactly 3 minutes, but sometimes
it's enough to discourage me from going on
that ride.
Logically this makes no sense.
Why would 3 minutes of preparation, deter
me from doing something I know I enjoy?
But like I said, humans are quite lazy and
we would rather do something that's easy and
convenient, instead of what we actually want
to do.
For this simple reason, I'm sometimes stressed
for the entire day.
This of course, could easily be avoided, by
just going on that bike ride, which I know
I would enjoy and it would help me de-stress.
But at that moment, I would rather go for
the default option, which is to spend my time
thinking about all the horrible scenarios
that will never happen, instead of choosing
a slightly less convenient option, which would
solve the problem.
I know all of this might sound silly, but
it's just an example of how inconvenience
can dictate our actions.
By now, you probably understand how your surroundings affect your behavior, and you might even
have a few ideas about how you can use all this
information to your advantage.
But just so you can get a better sense of
it, here's a few common problems people face,
and how The 20 Second Rule can be applied
to solve them.
If you want to exercise more often, make sure
your gym is as close as possible.
Preferably somewhere on your route to work.
This way, you can stop there before you start
your job, or afterwards when you're on your
way home.
If you have to drive 1 hour somewhere every
time you want to workout, you'll be more likely
to skip it altogether as that's a huge barrier.
Plus you wanna make sure to get your gym bag
ready ahead of time, or whatever else is necessary
for the workout of your choice.
This way when you're ready to exercise, you
don't have to search and scramble around for
all the necessary gear.
Some people also like to sleep in their gym
clothes, so when they wake up they are already set.
Basically they skip the dressing up part when
they wake up, since usually in the morning,
they don't really feel like exercising.
But since they are already geared up, it's
much easier to do so, because there's one
less barrier in the way.
If you have trouble eating healthy, simply
throw out all the unhealthy food in your house.
This way, all that remains is healthy food.
When you're hungry and you don't feeling like
cooking, of course you will eat whatever is
most convenient.
Usually that's something unhealthy, that's
already been factory prepared.
But if there isn't anything unhealthy in your
house, you now have to go out of your way
to get it.
And since there's this additional obstacle
in the way, you're less likely to do so.
But if you're the type of person that would
still go out and buy junk food, then consider
preparing some of your healthy meals in advance
on a Sunday, and simply heat them up during
the week.
So now if the cravings hit, there is less
activation energy required to eat a healthy
meal, as it's already waiting there for you.
Another common problem, that most don't even
realize is a problem, is unintentional phone
use, when trying to work or study.
You most likely always have your phone somewhere
near you, and you're able to start using it
whenever you want.
But most of the time you check the phone simply
because you're looking for a way to escape
those 5 seconds of boredom and your phone
is conveniently there.
For this exact reason, our phones have become
anti-focus devices, as they take our attention
from whatever we should be doing.
Therefore, you should create a barrier by
putting your phone in another room or somewhere
where you can't see or reach it.
If you actually need to use it for something
important, you'll have to get up and get it.
And you'll most likely realize that you don't
need to check your phone as often as you do now.
Of course, many people need to use their phone
or computer for work, therefore they aren't
able to simply hide it somewhere.
But they can still modify the software on
their devices.
If you have trouble with constant social media
use, simply delete all the apps or move them
to a folder somewhere, so they're harder to
access.
Instead make your homescreen work related.
Again, this creates a barrier between unintentional
social media use, since you can't access it
with one simple click any more.
And at the same time, it makes your work related
stuff easier to use.
The same can be applied for your computer
use, by separating work from play.
You do this by creating two different users,
one that is optimized for work, and another
one that is optimized for fun.
This way when it's time to work, you're actually
working and you're not stuck browsing random
websites or playing video games.
Likewise, when you want to relax, you don't
have anything to remind you of work, and you
can fully unwind.
Ok, these are just a few examples of how you
could increase or decrease activation energy,
but there are many more options.
You will need to think about your own situation
and see where you can make some changes.
The 20 second rule probably won't work all
the time, but it will make your behavior more
intentional, rather than default.
Sure, there will be days when you really want
to watch TV, so get up and grab the batteries
from the other room.
Just like there will be days when I'll have
no problem getting my bike from the basement.
The point is to become aware of your default
behaviors and be in control of them, rather
than being left at the mercy of whatever is
most convenient in the moment.
That is why I encourage you to examine your
surroundings and think about where you could
add or reduce 20 seconds of activation energy.
Remember, starting is always the most difficult
part.
So make your desired actions easy to start,
while making your unwanted actions difficult.
This will allow you to become the master of
your own behavior.
Now, I want to make one activity easier for
you.
And that is learning.
So I suggest you check out today's sponsor:
Skillshare.
You've probably heard about Skillshare before,
but for those of you who haven't, Skillshare
is an online learning platform with thousands
of different classes.
Ranging from business, to software design,
all the way to creativity.
And your current skill level doesn't matter.
Whether you're a novice or already experienced,
you can definitely find a class that can teach
you something new.
Of course, with so many different classes
to choose from, it can quickly get overwhelming
and you don't know where to start.
So to make that decision easier, I suggest
you first check out Thomas Frank's class on habits.
There you will learn all about habit formation,
something that is necessary to understand
in every walk of life.
Now since I want to make it as easy as I can
for you to begin, I've conveniently placed
a link to Skillshare down below.
And for a limited time, if you use the link,
you will get a free trial of Skillshare's
Premium Membership, so you can check out the
mentioned class for free.
Also to make consistent learning easier, bookmark
Skillshare's page, to reduce the activation
energy required to start.
You could even set it as a homepage, to minimize
the friction even further.
Remember, you want to simplify your habits,
and using the search bar every time is an
unnecessary barrier to overcome.
Anyway, thank you for watching till the very
end.
I hope you've learned something new today,
and I helped you become better than yesterday.
